---
title: "The Machines in the Valley Digital History Project"
date: 2015-01-02
categories:
- dissertation
- research
comments: true
---

I am excited to finally release the digital component of my 
dissertation, [Machines in the Valley](http://dissertation.jasonheppler.org).

My dissertation, *Machines in the Valley*, examines the environmental, 
economic, and cultural conflicts over suburbanization and 
industrialization in California's Santa Clara Valley--today known as 
Silicon Valley--between 1945 and 1990. The high technology sector 
emerged as a key component of economic and urban development in the 
postwar era, particularly in western states seeking to diversify their 
economic activities.  Industrialization produced thousands of new jobs, 
but development proved problematic when faced with competing views about 
land use. The natural allure that accompanied the thousands coming West 
gave rise to a modern environmental movement calling for strict 
limitations on urban growth, the preservation of open spaces, and the 
reduction of pollution. Silicon Valley stood at the center of these 
conflicts as residents and activists criticized the environmental impact 
of suburbs and industry in the valley. Debates over the Santa Clara 
Valley's landscape tells the story not only of Silicon Valley's 
development, but Americans' changing understanding of nature and the 
environmental costs of urban and industrial development.

The digital edition of my dissertation is yet a work-in-progress--there 
are probably things that don't quite work right and plenty of more 
exposition and narrative I'll be adding over the next few months. 
The project will go through iterations as I finish my written dissertation. The 
project will house several features, including interactive 
visualizations, dynamic narratives and analysis that extend upon themes 
covered in my chapters, and access to certain primary sources. I do this 
in the spirit of making my research open and extending upon themes in my 
research. Not every piece of digital scholarship can make the transition 
to print form--the act of trying to fully describe a dynamic 
visualization can be come lost. Better that readers have a chance to 
interact directly with the same tools, views, and material that I used 
to draw my conclusions.

I also aver that putting your work online gives you access to your 
publics--researchers, educators, interested readers, students, and so 
on. To me, such access has been invaluable. I have correspondence with 
people on a monthly basis who have discovered some facet of my digital 
scholarship who are interested in my work, have questions they want to 
ask, ideas they want to challenge, and collaborations they want to 
engage with. That has become one of the most valuable contributions 
digital history made to my professional life. The writing of history for 
other academics serves an important function, but that cannot be our 
only function. Out engagement with new narrative ideas in electronic 
form gives us a chance to reach audiences that can be difficult to find 
with books and articles. Digital scholarship not only makes my work 
better, but hopefully contributes to accessing knowledge.

The digital dissertation joins other digital scholarship that I've made 
available over the last few years, including [Framing Red 
Power](http://framingredpower.org) and 
["Self-sustaining and a good citizen": William F. Cody and the 
Progressive Wild West](http://www.codystudies.org/showindians/). If 
anyone is interested in the code used for the site, you can find the 
details on [Github](http://github.com/hepplerj/machinesvalley/).

So, [check out the project](http://dissertation.jasonheppler.org) and 
let me know what you think!
