---
title: "Interview with Matt Burton"
date: 2015-01-10
categories:
- interview
- digital history
- digital humanities
comments: true
---

**When did you start your blog (career wise: as a grad student, 
Â undergrad, etc)? Why did you decide to start blogging?**

I started blogging early in graduate school. The blog started as a 
co-authored blog between my friend [Brent Rogers](http://josephsmithpapers.org/projectTeam#brentRogers) and myself as a way 
for us to share our thoughts and ideas about digital history. We started 
the blog in the context of a course we were in together believing that 
it made more sense to write for both a public audience along with our 
professors. I don't want to just write for other academics -- I want 
what I write to be accessible and available to whoever is interested in 
what I have to say.

**How do you host your blog? How did you learn to set it up? Can you 
expand upon the point you made about "owning your domain" in the 
Podcast?**

The blog has gone through a couple of platform iterations. When Brent 
and I started we were hosting on WordPress's free platform before I 
moved over to WordPress.com. A few years ago I got caught up in the wave 
of sites moving over to static blogging and, since I was also a Ruby 
coder, I switched over to Jekyll (which the site continues to run on 
today). 

Many of the things I've learned along the way have been self-taught. I 
have no formal experience in computer programming or design, but I did 
spent time on high school and college as a freelance web 
developer/designer which set me up with learning the language of the 
web. I took a deeper dive into computers early in graduate school when I 
started using Ubuntu Linux as my main operating system, which introduced 
me to Unix, setting up my own LAMP stack, and so on. So, installing and 
running WordPress (at the time, hosted with Bluehost) had become 
familiar to me. Since I had become so comfortable with the command line, 
Jekyll was a natural fit for me. Plus, for my needs I didn't want the 
overhead of WordPress--maintaining the database, the constant security 
updates, controlling spam. Running a static blog simplified the entire 
process for me, and let me focus on my content more than the vagaries of 
maintaining a website. 

For owning your domain: I believe you shouldn't let third parties be 
your online identity. Facebook, Twitter, department websites, 
Academia.edu, and LinkedIn should be treated as gateways to your own 
domain. You don't have as much control over how you are presented on the 
web through these services, and they can disappear or change drastically overnight. What I mean by owning a domain is you should have 
a URL of your own (your name if possible, and a `.com` if possible) and a corner of the web that you call your own. That 
corner could be a full-fledge blog, a "brochure" site that describes 
who you are and what you do, or a combination of the two. 

People will go looking for you online; give them a place to find you.

**What were the challenges associated with the blog (i.e. spam, finding 
topics, finding time, getting it counted as "work", etc)?**

One of the challenges is topics, and related to that is time. One way to 
get around the topic hold-up is to not pigeonhole your writing into one 
topic or theme, which I think I've managed to do. I write a lot about DH 
and about history, but I also veer into coffee, podcasts, music, and so 
on. Whenever the writing muse strikes on whatever topic, I want to be 
ready to write no matter the theme.

Having time available to write has gotten a little trickier. When I was 
still taking classes and writing for those venues, I often made the 
things I wrote for class available on my blog -- things I wrote for 
class would be adapted to blog posts. Nowadays it's a little tricky to 
find time to write for the blog between juggling a full-time job, 
finishing a dissertation, and the demands beyond professional life. 

**What topics did you normally write about? Did you try and keep it 
strictly about your work, or do you ever mix in other topics?**

I've [mentioned 
elsewhere](http://jasonheppler.org/2012/07/11/what-i-learned-as-an-academic-blogger/) 
that I believe you should write about whatever motivates you to write. 
That's what matters. Most of my writing revolves around digital history 
and my research, which is a broad enough organizing theme that it 
creates enough topics. Although I've tended to write about my work, I do 
sometimes venture into other topics and hobbies. I also started doing a 
John Gruber-style linkblog, which is still built into my blog but I 
don't use as often as I did a few years ago.

**What kinds of interactions (scholarly or otherwise) emerged out of 
your blogging practice?**

I'd amend this to not just blogging, but Twitter also. I think the 
combination of the two is important: long form content appeared on the 
blog, but advertising the blog post and the discussions about the post 
took place on Twitter. Or sharing thoughts that don't quite make the cut 
for long-form but work well in the short space Twitter gives.

I don't know that I have any specific collaborations that emerged from the 
blog, but having an online presence that included Twitter and blogging 
has led to many different interactions. One has simply been networking, 
a function that conferences still fulfill, but I also feel Twitter has 
played a huge role in introducing me to a lot of people. I suppose that 
digital presence has helped me connect to a few projects that I'm 
affiliated with (*[The American Yawp](http://www.americanyawp.com/)*, 
*[The Middle West 
Review](http://www.nebraskapress.unl.edu/product/Middle-West-Review,676024.aspx)*) 
as well as a few forthcoming collaborations that I can't share yet (watch for these 
soon!).

There are other things, too. I've been interviewed by a few different 
venues about digital humanities. I've been a 
writer for ProfHacker and GradHacker. I've had lots of conversations 
with people about scholarly Markdown. As I've shared my scholarly work 
online, I've connected with others doing similar things or reached a 
public audience interested in the work I'm doing. Some of the things 
I've written turn into conference presentations. All of these things 
are professionally and personally rewarding.

**Do you find these interactions informative, useful, enlightening, 
tedious, frustrating, obligatory, etc?**

By and large I find it useful and informative. The interactions have led 
me to new ideas, introduced me to new people, and built up a 
professional reputation that I think has been important not only for 
carving out my niche in the field of history but also allowed me to, in 
a way, advertise myself to potential employers. Networking is an 
important skill in the academy, and I think having an online presence 
can go a long way in helping you cultivate a network of people across 
institutions.

Such interactions are also exciting because they're giving me a chance 
to engage in new collaborations (like the one's I can't mention yet...) 
that I likely wouldn't have a chance to engage with otherwise. Blogging 
gave me an avenue not only to work through ideas, but also allowed 
the discovery by others to the sort of things I do and the interests 
that I have.

**How do you think digital humanities blogging is different from more 
traditional forms of academic writing and reading?**

In my own experience I feel that much of digital humanities blogging 
tends to focus more heavily on methodology rather than the narrative and 
analytical pieces you'd find in most academic journals and books. For 
example, Cameron Blevins' post on [topic modeling Martha 
Ballard](http://www.cameronblevins.org/posts/topic-modeling-martha-ballards-diary/) 
is quite popular because of its methodological underpinnings. The entire 
post is mostly a methodological piece about topic modeling, and as 
Cameron noted at [his AHA conference 
presentation](http://www.cameronblevins.org/posts/perpetual-sunrise-methodology/) 
in January 2015, the piece didn't uncover anything necessarily new or 
surprising: it conformed conclusions already made by Laural Thatcher 
Ulrich. But we have a lot of methodological pieces -- Blevins, 
Underwood, Schmidt, Mullen, McDaniel, myself -- that probably wouldn't 
find a home in most of our traditional writing venues. 

I find that form of writing incredibly useful. We are, by and large, a 
pretty open community willing to share methods and ideas that we've 
experimented with. Given the rapid pace of change and new methodological 
approaches, such writing also helps me keep up with what's going on 
generally in digital humanities.

**How would you characterize the relationship between blogging and the 
digital humanities (however broadly conceived)?**

Similar to the above, I feel that much of the writing in digital 
humanities blogging tends to focus on methodology. Such writing tends to 
prompt me to think about methodologies I can start to apply to my own 
work, or methods that I could share with others in regard to their work. 
DH blogging also tends to riff off one another more than 
traditional writing, which shows the different ways that similar methodologies 
are applied to different research questions (see, for example, Ben 
Schmidt's [latest posts on story 
arcs](http://sappingattention.blogspot.com/2014/12/typical-tv-episodes-visualizing-topics.html) 
and their similar application by [David 
Mimno](http://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/novels/plot.html), [Matt 
Jockers](http://www.matthewjockers.net/2015/01/05/plot-arcs-schmidt-style/), 
and [Ted 
Underwood](http://tedunderwood.com/2015/01/03/plot-arcs-in-the-novel/)). 

**What DH blogs/bloggers do you read and why do you read them? What do 
you like about them?**

There are many! That's the thing with this community--many maintain a 
blog. I'd have to say the bloggers I've been reading the longest are 
[Dan Cohen](http://www.dancohen.org/) and [Caleb 
McDaniel](http://wcm1.web.rice.edu/). I learned about Dan years ago when 
I started graduate school as I was introduced to the great work going on 
at RRCHNM. Reading Dan's posts gave me a great window into what DH could 
be. I started reading Caleb's blog for a different reason. He was still 
writing on his previous blog [Mode for Caleb](http://modeforcaleb.blogspot.com/) and, if I recall 
correctly, wasn't doing much with DH at the time. The blog was his space 
away from his dissertation to write about whatever struck him. The 
pieces I recall the most are those about jazz music, an interest him and 
I share. In addition to Dan and Caleb, [Lincoln 
Mullen](http://lincolnmullen.com/), [Chuck 
Rybak](http://chuckrybak.com/), [Bethany 
Nowviskie](http://nowviskie.org/), several of my grad school friends 
([Robert Jordan](http://historyblogger.net/), [Andy 
Wilson](https://andrewwilson84.wordpress.com/), [Brian 
Sarnacki](http://www.briansarnacki.com/), [Michelle 
Tiedje](http://michelletiedje.com/)), [Ben 
Schmidt](http://sappingattention.blogspot.com/), [Ted 
Underwood](http://tedunderwood.com/), and [Matt 
Jockers](http://www.matthewjockers.net/), are all regulars in my RSS 
reader. The list goes on and on. I value their ideas and the energy they 
bring to their work. I learn something new every time one of them posts 
something. 

And thanks to Twitter I'm exposed to many, many more posts written by 
people doing DH.

I also enjoy the posts at [BlogWest](http://blogwest.org/), where a 
group of my friends and colleagues write about my field of western 
American history. 

**What was your most popular blog post? Why do you think it was so 
popular?**

I'd say the most popular had to be the [Rubyist Historian 
series](http://jasonheppler.org/rubyist-historian/) that I wrote for 
introducing humanities scholars to the Ruby programming language. It's 
the only post, for example, that found it's way onto DHNow. 

I haven't thought much about what made the series so popular. I was 
inspired by both the class it was based on (Prof. [Steve 
Ramsay](http://stephenramsay.us/)'s Electronic Texts at UNL) and the 
[Programming Historian](http://programminghistorian.org/). There's an 
interest among some humanities scholars to learn how to program, and any 
time a new language is taught and examples are provided for how that 
language can be used for humanities research I think there's a hunger 
for that information. The Programming Historian for Python, the Rubyist 
Historian for Ruby, Lincoln Mullen's in-progress book on [R methods in 
digital history](http://dh-r.lincolnmullen.com/), Matt Jockers' [work on 
R](http://www.matthewjockers.net/text-analysis-with-r-for-students-of-literature/), 
and Elijah Meeks' [book on D3.js](http://www.manning.com/meeks/) all 
speak, I think, to the desire for people to make programming part of 
their normal work.

**Anything else you think is important you'd want to mention about your 
blog?**

Is this where I apologize for not writing so much recently?

