---
date: 2014-06-04T06:46:47Z
description: null
image: dhsi2014_game.jpg
categories:
- conference
title: What does Missile Command have to do with Digital History?
url: /2014/06/04/what-does-missile-command-have-to-do-with-digital-history/
---

I am spending the week at the University of Victoria for this year's [Digital
Humanities Summer Institute]() (DHSI). I was here last year and had the chance to 
make a lot of new friends -- indeed, I think one of the most powerful 
experiences of attending DHSI is the engagement with the people and the 
community. The people here are *awesome*.

I'm in the physical computing course with [Jentery 
Sayers](http://www.jenterysayers.com/), [Bill 
Turkel](http://williamjturkel.net/), and [Devon 
Elliott](http://devonelliott.net/about/). We're getting introduced to a 
variety of technologies -- 3D printing, Arduino boards, Raspberry Pi, Max, and 
Makey Makey. One of the projects a group of us are working on is reviving a 
1983 gaming desk that originally played *[Missile 
Command](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Missile_Command)*.  *Missile Command* 
was a 1980 game published by Atari where the game player had to aim three 
anti-missile batteries at incoming missiles and bombs. (Want to play? [It's 
online](http://chrome.atari.com/missilecommand/).)

The one question that I keep returning to: why build this? Well, if you are an 
historian of technology, or game culture, or want to understand something 
about the design decision that went into the production of *Missile Command*, 
or you're thinking about the historical preservation of video games and the 
devices they were originally played on, then engaging with physical computing 
makes good sense.  After all, the process of of recreating the system may lead 
to understanding the decisions that went into the circuit design, wiring, and 
programming of the game itself in ways that reading primary sources may not. 
It strikes me how often we've had to think about certain design decisions for 
our own technological limitations. For example, the Raspberry Pi only had 
fifteen pins open that we could interact with, but the controls and other 
features we were adding on required more than what was available. Our solution 
was to pair Makey Makey to handle the controls, and feed that into the 
Raspberry Pi. That left enough pins to control coin detection, audio, a way to 
escape the emulator, and a way to select the number of players. If we're 
running into design and technology considerations with modern computing 
devices, what sort of things did the original game designers run in to? And 
how do their decisions reflect something about the technological history of 
the 1980s?

But I don't study those questions. Maybe they're obvious questions to those who do. So 
why am I interested in creating a game emulator within a 1983 gaming desk? As 
a teaching tool, I find physical computing immensely compelling. I could 
envision a course on the history of computing or the history of electronics 
that asks undergraduates to re-create historical objects using modern-day 
technology. But our technology today -- like any technology -- carries 
limitations of function, energy, availability, affordability, and so on. 
Design decisions are made throughout the process. As they ask questions about 
their current technology, that opens up an opportunity to ask questions about 
historical technology. With those questions in mind, plus their physical  
interaction with the device, we could turn students towards primary sources to 
understand the historical limitations of technology. We come to understand the 
past through a material engagement with the present. 

And as a public history tool, physical computing likewise holds promise. I 
could envision an opportunity to use such devices to prompt users to think 
about the historical preservation of electronics, electronic media, and games. 
Or, to completely repurpose something like a gaming cabinet as an alternative 
interaction device. You could, for example, set up the cabinet to run Google 
Earth and allow the game controls to be a method of guiding yourself through 
historically-recreated virtual worlds. Or replace the cabinet with a physical 
globe that controls Google Earth. What other perspectives could physical 
computing lend to the ways that we appreciate electronics or interact with 
explanatory devices?

Anyway, some initial thoughts about the intersection of physical computing 
with digital history. We're doing a lot more in the courses and I have many 
more ideas swirling about -- 3D printing, historical reconstruction of 
electronics and devices, and so on -- but those will come later.

