---
title: 'The IndieWeb'
date: 2019-11-30T10:04:12-06:00
slug: 'indieweb'
categories: 
- tech life
---

Lincoln has published his first newsletter called "Working on It," and the
first topic is near and dear to me: the [importance of the
IndieWeb](https://buttondown.email/lmullen/archive/love-letter-to-the-indieweb/). 

There's so much to agree with and so many parts of his piece that I see
reflected in myself that it's hard to know what else I want to say here. Like
Lincoln, I've had my own presence on the web for a while now--I bought this
domain around 2008, and has been an important space for me in learning how to
build, how to write, how to program, how to break things and fix them. There's
no doubt in my mind that without a place of my own on the Internet I wouldn't
be much of a historian now. There's no way I would've ended up hired ABD at
Stanford University, no way I would've had the privilege of collaborating on
cutting edge and innovative digital history projects, no way I would've
avoided the horrors of the academic job market. 

I've watched as friends and people I deeply respect have left the large social platforms---[Lincoln](https://lincolnmullen.com), [Dan](https://dancohen.org/), [Alan](http://ayjay.org), and others---that has me rethinking my own relationship with these spaces. I do think there's an important role for historians on Twitter, and I believe that [Kevin](https://twitter.com/KevinMKruse), [Heather](https://twitter.com/HC_Richardson), [Kevin](https://twitter.com/TheTattooedProf), [Joanne](https://twitter.com/jbf1755), [David](https://twitter.com/davidastinwalsh), [Nicole](https://twitter.com/pastpunditry), and so many others are doing a great service to combatting disinformation and sharing their deep knowledge of history.  I think I offer that kind of public service as well, but have found that outlet elsewhere---the *Washington Post*, *The Conversation*, or this blog, where the information has more permanance than the fleeting attention of Twitter's timeline. I simply don't have the time to follow the next Twitter outrage and engage with that in any meaningful way. I'm glad others do, but that isn't for me. 

And like Lincoln, I have a strong bias towards building things. I fell in love
with this medium as a place for making, writing, research, scholarship. I find
the process of building things for the scholarly web exhilarating and
meaningful. And this, from Lincoln, really resonated with me: 

> For a long time, I felt stuck—mired, really. But over the past couple months, I’ve gone back to tinkering with the basic building blocks of the web and figuring out what to do with the blank canvas of an open `<html>` tag.

For almost the same reason as Lincoln writes, I find myself spending more time
with [Observable notebooks](https://observablehq.com/@hepplerj) (as way to
learn the new parts of JavaScript I haven't spent much time with in a couple
years), investing less time (or leaving entirely) the big social networks,
learning new languages (like Go, now that this website runs on Hugo) and
reinvesting time into old ones (like JavaScript and R). That's a far better
use of my time than scrolling through Twitter. 

And while I've long been an advocate/activist for the open web, [my work with
the Mozilla Foundation](https://foundation.mozilla.org/en/opportunity/mozilla-open-leaders/) has further cemented those ideas. The Internet needs
help; it's not a healthy place right now. I'm not convinced the indies can
topple the corporate web, but it *is* the space I'd rather spend my time
building for and fighting for. I'm not leaving Twitter, at least not yet. But
I am spending less time there, aided by Apple's [App
Limits](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208982). You'll find me more
frequently at [Micro.blog](https://micro.blog), Observable, and writing here.  

Anyway, I'll echo Lincoln: I love you, IndieWeb. I'll be spending a lot more
time with you.
